# JavaScriptExample
This Repo is made to learn around the use of javascript

1. Vairables in JS : They are a dynamic allocated since we can change them at run time. JS is a dynamic hence its run time changeable 
2. Var,Const and Let 
        Var - Can be used to define a variable that is in global view to the script so if i use anywhere its gonna take that value 
        let - It is a block statement so if in a scope i use the block statement then i can change it. 
        const - Cannot be changed its always stagnent this helps hence we can use const when we want to make a variable constant and not changeable (this would throw an error).
3. Primitive data types in javascript - there are 7 types of datatypes in JS that is - Null, Number, Symbol, String, Boolean, Bigint, Undefined 
   Objects are a key value string - in python its called as dictionary but in the js its called as objects 
4. Pratice Set: add two number, then we have typeof oprtator to say what type of primitive data type is a variable using , then we can have const  as a fixed/reserved object that cannot be changed anywhere once it is defined but then we can add any new key element to it and at last we learned about the two ways we can access an value in a dict/object.
5. Operators and expression in JS : Just like any another language the operators and expression works and also the compression operator and logical operator.In Compression operator its where the == & === are both the same and also the != and the !==  will give the same value irrespective of the string and value combination. Logical operator is where if the symbol "&&" means that both should be true then the result will return as true and if "||" this means that if any one value is false then result is false and last one is "!" this means that if some value is true then it will return it as false and if any value is false it will return as true. And then we have comments that is single line comments and then multiline comments - //  and  /* */
6. Conditional operators: the js has three types of conditional operators that is if,if-else and if-else-if these are the conditional statements so if any criteria matches then that part of the code will be executed. Typescripting i where we use to convert a string to an number this is done using "ParseInt" (Ref line-96). The if statement is where the specific condition meets then the statement will be executed. If-else is where if the condition of the if doesnt meet then the else part of the statement will be executed. We can add as many times of else-if command. Switch is like its breaks based on the condition and its check line-by-line that is example case of manago and apple mentioned. Here notice that each statement has a break condition so that its break if the condition is not met and goes to the next case. If we notice there is a case where the mangoes doesnt havent a statement this is where the condition is in a loop with another case that is banana in the example and then each switch statement has an default case and a statement for it.So which ever case matchs the case will be executed.. Ternary operator this is to have the condition with an questionary symbol set where we can run the condition within an console statement. this works with an '?' and an ':' between the conditions and also ensure that the statement works are negative and then positive - 'false':'true'.
7. Loops : 
Simple for loop : this is where it checks for the statement that is enclosed in the brackets that is as seen in the example the syntax is - initialiser:condition:increament/decreament. And the main thing is the statement-1 will be executed only once. (LOOP A BLOVK OF CODE NO OF TIMES)
For-In loop: This is similiar to the for loop but then there is a decalaration of the key in object for the for loop and then the code inside this key-object will be executed. see line-145 (LOOPS THROUGH THE KEYS OF AN OBJECT)
For-of loop: The for of loop is used where its the iteration of the variable iteration that is if here the string is harry then it would iterate it for each letter and give in a new line as each character. See line - 154 (LOOPS THROUGH THE VALUES OF AN OBJECT/STRING)
8. While loop and do-while loop: 
This is used when the for loop cannot be used to run as an iterate function and if we dont have an mention of i++ then it will go into a loop and consume more cpu speed and will lead to crash. Hence the while loop came into picture. In Do-While it first has a loop that runs then the condition is checked. 
9. Function: A JS fucntion is a block of code designed to perform a particular task. That is the function followed by its name and the statement. The Function is where we use the function name and the parameters are passed on.A Function can also return a value the value us retured back to the the caller.
10. Strings: Strings are used to store and manipulate text and it can be used as in double quotes as well as the single quotes. Then to get the count of the characters used we use the .length. 
Then we have the template literals where we can use the backtic(`) when ever we dont want to specific any value in the sentence. Then we have the escape sequence that is where if in case we have an apostrophe 's then we have an issue with the character to solve this we have the escape sequence that is used like (\).Like this we also have three other escape sequence that is \n or \- used for newline second one is \t is the used for tab and the last one is \r thatis used for carriage return.  
11. Arrays are variable which can hold more than one value. And it can hold diff type of variables. We can add a new element to the array and by default it goes to the last. And we can also change an exisiting value in the array. In short arrays are mutable and can be changed. So array is a non-primitve type and hence if we check the typeof of an array it will return as an object because it is an considered as an non-primitive DS. 
12. Array methods- these are some important array methods in the js. First - toString()-> Converts an array to a string of comma separated values. Second-> joins all the array elements using a separater. Thing to note is when we use such array methods this object will turn to string (try using the typeof now). Third-> we have the pop command that is used to remove an element from the end of the array list. 



